so for this person and everyone else out
there who's stuck trying to find a
career what i'd say is like think about
what you're passionate about first
and then try to figure out how can i
make this work as a job how can i get
compensated for doing this
how do i find a career when everything
in life is boring to me i've tried
college and self-study in the past but i
never finished anything i've switched
majors like eight times and i was still
unhappy i just can't see really see
myself doing anything to be honest in
the past ten years the only career
fields i've worked on have been
restaurants
and clinics working in the billing call
center departments i've hated them both
because both are dead end low paying
stressful and soul-crushing
i don't care about being super rich i
just want to find something that pays
decent and that also doesn't make me
want to kill myself by the end of the
week
this is something that i can absolutely
sympathize with empathize with
um you know i had a period of time in my
life when i was like
really felt like everything was sort of
a dead end and and nothing was really
working for me so let's take a look at
this because i think this is a really
common problem so nowadays a lot of
people
struggle to find a career and find
everything to be boring right so they're
like i tried this i found it boring i
tried this i found it boring like how do
i figure out like what kind of career to
have
so i want to talk to you all a little
bit about how we approach decision
making and how to find the right career
for you okay so the first thing
is that we have this idea that like we
need a career right and so like there's
we're sort of like taught like
societally that there is oh god so this
is a really common problem that people
have right they'll say like how do i
find the right career for me like i've
tried this i've tried this i did this
for a while
and um you know none of it really worked
i didn't enjoy it how do i find the
right career
so the first thing to understand is that
we tend to think about
a career right we say to ourselves like
oh like i need a career of some kind
the other thing that tends to happen is
if we look at how people make decisions
it's basically like monkey see monkey do
so i remember i was working with a a you
know a young patient of mine who um had
started to use substances and so i was
his addiction psychiatrist and he had
gone to a 30-day rehab and he was trying
to figure out you know what to do with
his life and i you know i was kind of
asking okay so like what's your plan
going forward and he's like well you
know i've got a body that works at
an auto shop so i think he can hook me
up with a job
and so it was really interesting because
as i talked to him what i realized is
like the options that he was considering
are basically
exactly what's in front of him so we as
human beings tend to be like very monkey
see monkey do so like based on when we
think about the options for like what we
should do with ourselves
it tends to be based on things that are
immediately available like so i'm the
child of two doctors and i grew up in a
small town in east texas
where three out of five of the indian
kids in my class like in my grade there
were like five indian kids that were in
my grade in the entire city three of
them wound up becoming doctors so when i
was growing up and i went to college
like i majored in pre-med because that's
just what people
did
right
so when we look at decision making
what we tend to do is we don't actually
make like
objective decisions we don't really look
at all of the choices available to us we
tend to reach for the first thing that
is available to us
so like it's kind of weird because this
is there's a there's a good um
exploration of this kind of thing
in um who's that nobel prize-winning
economist daniel kahneman so i think he
sort of talks about this it's important
in medicine as well
where one of the things that doctors are
trained how to do is to not
make decisions based on the first thing
that pops into their head or the second
thing or the third thing or the fourth
thing so a lot of times doctors make
mistakes when they sort of rely on like
their first instinct to make a decision
and what we train doctors to do is
something called differential diagnosis
which is to think through all of the
possibilities before settling on one
so i see this a lot where people are
trying to figure out what should my
career be i've tried all this stuff i've
tried switching majors eight times and
it still hasn't worked what do i do so
i'd say the first thing to do is to take
a step back and to really think about
okay what are all of the possibilities
here construct a differential diagnosis
about how you can spend your time and
when someone says i can't figure out
what my career is i'd say that's
actually too narrow to begin with
because forget about a career like i you
know even a career is maybe not like is
the problem is that your mind is coming
up with solutions that are already so
narrow so if your problem is that i
don't i can't find a career i enjoy i
think part of that problem is because
your mind is narrowly chasing options
for a career and by doing so you may
actually miss out on all kinds of things
that you could earn like a livable wage
with but your mind won't even consider
them because you're locked into this
idea of career
because the problem is that when you
think about career right like then you
start thinking about things like call
center oh i can get a job at a call
center i can get a job at a billing
department i can get a job in food
service so you're reaching for the
simplest thing the most available thing
instead of considering all of your
options
so what i'd strongly recommend is take a
step back from the idea of a career
entirely even if we look at how we
started a healthy gamer like this is a
mental health startup that's relatively
successful right like we're doing some
good stuff we're helping some people
things like that i did not start out
like thinking i'mma create a mental
health startup and quit my job that is
really not what i cared about at all it
was like hey there's uh there's there's
like people who are really struggling in
a particular way and i'm gonna try to
help these people because it seems like
no one else is
and so when you're really thinking about
what you should do the first thing i do
is take a step back from the idea of
career
and so this person was kind of saying
everything that i've tried is boring
so then what i'd say is like take even a
further step back and ask yourself the
question if you're trying to find a
non-boring career start by asking
yourself what do you enjoy and forget
about the career right start to think
like okay what what was the was what's
something that i'm genuinely interested
in what's something that i enjoy doing
what's something that i you know really
like
kind of been passionate about when was
the last time that i really had a lot of
fun doing something
when was the last time i was
intellectually engaged what do i care
about what do i think i can do to make
the world like a better place like
what's some kind of problem in the world
that i would like to have an impact on
and you have to be kind of careful here
because your mind may go for more what
we call premature closure because it may
say oh i'm really passionate about
you know
like equal rights
but i have no qualifications okay and so
then then what your mind does is it'll
say oh that's not an option because i
have no qualifications that's a
premature closure too
um thinking about a career is also a
premature closure so what we want to do
is take a really big step back
and then start to think about what you
actually care about what you find
interesting
and then once you pick a couple of those
things then what we're gonna do is like
an investigation based on what you find
interesting
and what the purpose of an investigation
is a couple fold the first is like it's
really interesting because i don't know
if you guys know this but like there are
professional dms in new york city that
will charge like 400 a week to run like
a dm'ing session right and so you may
say to yourself like i never realized
that was a career i don't even know if
it is a career but what some people
discovered is that hey i'm really really
passionate about this and it does seem
like there's a lack of good dms so
there's actually like people who are
willing to pay like like 400 bucks a
week you've got like you know people who
are
you know maybe investment bankers or
whatever like in new york city there's
like five people in the group they're
all willing to chip in 80 bucks a week
and like that's their entertainment
budget because if you go out a single
night like you go to dinner and you get
drinks in new york city it's like 200
bucks at a minimum right so there's
actually like supply and there's demand
and like i've actually met some
professional dms and it's kind of
interesting
you may say to yourself oh i never
realized that was a career and like yeah
because we don't think about that as a
career right it's not something that
people around you are going to be
regularly doing but there are all kinds
of niche opportunities for you to make a
livable wage doing something that you
love
and the key thing to get into that kind
of thinking is to step out of the idea
of a career so i'd say start with
something like thinking about what do
you actually enjoy what do you care
about what do you like find interesting
and then what you want to do is start to
think a little bit about okay like i'm
how can i pursue this how can i make
this work and then something really
fascinating will happen so let's say
that you're interested in like you know
equal rights or whatever like
then the interesting thing is you may
not have any skill set
but as you start to like move towards
something that you genuinely care about
the ability to do things that you don't
enjoy will become far more tolerable so
the problem right now is that we have a
group of people who like go to school
and they have no end game in mind
they're not going to school for a
particular reason that they're
passionate about this is something in
addiction psychiatry that we call a
competing interest so this is a really
important principle
if you want to do something that's very
very difficult
you have to have a competing interest so
an addiction psychiatry if you want to
get someone to quit smoking smoking
offers a strong biological reward it
offers dopamine it offers nicotine it
offers socialization it helps calm you
down it's an easy way to meet people so
smoking has all of these advantages and
it turns out that if you want to get
someone to quit smoking you can't just
give them information and say hey you're
going to get heart disease you're going
to get lung cancer you'll get bad you
know complications of covid all of that
information doesn't actually affect
behavior what affects behavior is a
competing interest something that you
care about and once you develop a
competing interest so you know my
favorite thing in terms of working with
smokers is i'll ask them like what do
they care about right what do they think
is interesting
and so i had you know one patient and
this is sort of the example that i use
so i had one patient who was a smoker
and i tried to explain and this is early
on in my career and so i tried to
explain to them i was like okay if you
if you smoke you're gonna get lung
cancer do you want lung cancer and he's
like no i don't want lung cancer comes
in a month later i'm like how's your
smoking going is oh i'm still smoking
i'm like okay you'll also get heart
disease you'll get stroke comes in a
month later
and he's like still smoking right
so then finally i get to like talk to
the guy and i get to know him and then
like it turns out that he's got a
daughter and he's like really happy and
like he's you know he likes his daughter
a lot and then you know i even try this
sort of thing where it's sort of like
hey like you know if you want to stay
alive and healthy for your daughter like
you know maybe you should quit smoking
he's like yeah that sounds really
important but he still continues to
smoke so one day we talk a little bit
about oh you know would you like to walk
your daughter down the aisle one day and
he's like yeah absolutely and then i
asked him you know when you walk your
daughter down the aisle do you want to
be wheeling an oxygen tank behind you
and then he's
like no
right so like he's got this vision he's
working really hard he's like trying to
be a good parent he wants to like
like be there for his daughter and then
it's about finding something that they
care about and once you develop that
competing interest
that competing interest that thing that
you care about then becomes enough to
overcome all of the biology all of the
dopamine all of the nicotine all of the
the you know social aspects of smoking
and then over the next like six to eight
months he actually like quit smoking
and it's all about developing a
competing interest and the problem right
now that i see is that a lot of people
like find a career because it's logical
it's good on paper but that logical
advantage of like oh i should do this
and should do this is not enough to
actually overcome
the suffering that you have to go
through for the career
so as you think about what you actually
care about and then you enroll in a
school with a purpose and then even
though you don't want to take statistics
even though you don't want to take you
know philosophy or like intro to
chemistry
once you have a good competing interest
and you're like hey this is something
that i actually care about i want to
learn this and this
this is what i'm passionate about and
then what you do is you align your
career behind your passions right
it's not how do i find a career that i
can enjoy and like your passions are
sitting over here you start by like
thinking about what you care about what
you enjoy and then you try to do like a
very systematic process of making it
work
so i'd say like if we go back to this
reddit post we can kind of see it pretty
clearly that like you know i want you
all to pay attention to this how do i
find a career when everything in life is
boring to me i don't think everything in
life is boring
right what we see is that i've tried
college and self-study but i never
finished anything i keep on switching
majors and i'm still unhappy so the real
question that this person should be
asking is what are you attracted to what
do you gravitate towards what do you
care about what do you genuinely enjoy
doing
and then be careful because your mind
may tell you oh you can't do that
because x y z
and the cool thing is that when your
mind tells you you can't do that because
xyz
that is actually going to be like your
solution
so as your mind tells you you can't do
that because you haven't graduated from
college then you know what you need to
do you need to graduate from college
well you can't graduate from college
until you get into college okay so then
it sounds like what we need to do is get
into college you can't get into college
without applying to college okay then it
sounds like i need to write an
application and the cool thing is then
when you write your college application
and you write your college essay if you
have that end goal in mind like when you
look at your essay it's going to be like
why do you want to go to college i want
to go to college because i'm interested
in supporting equal rights and
developing countries i want to go to
college because i'm interested in
esports i want to study creative writing
because i want to be a professional dm
and i want formal training and sort of
constructing adventures and storytelling
like
colleges love
seeing unorthodox candidates that have
like interesting ideas about what they
want to do
right it's really fascinating and what i
found time and time and time again is
that people who are able to do this
process of taking a step back really
think about what you enjoy doing think
about what you're passionate about and
then if you have to make some sacrifices
along the way to get to where you want
to go it works out really really well
so for this person and everyone else out
there who's stuck trying to find a
career what i'd say is like think about
what you're passionate about first
and then try to figure out how can i
make this work as a job how can i get
compensated for doing this
and like literally it was like i enjoy
talking to gamers all day like that's
what i like doing i like helping people
with their problems so one way that i
was able to turn that into a career is
by going to medical school and becoming
a psychiatrist but then i was also like
you know that's not insufficient for me
i actually like vibing with chat so what
are we gonna do i guess maybe i'll start
streaming on twitch and like i don't
know if y'all get this but like i just
started streaming on twitch one day
right like i had like 10 people who were
viewers and then we had like 15 and then
we had 50 and then we had 200 we were
like sitting around 200 viewers for a
couple of weeks and if you're passionate
about something and you kind of give it
your all and you try really hard it
turns out that i think the world will
kind of respond to you like pretty well
and that's why we have professional dms
we've got people who are like hey i
really love dming and like that's their
job now so what if he doesn't know what
he enjoys doing or he lost interest in
everything he used to love like me so
that's a great question so then the
question becomes how did you lose
interest right because that passion is
there it's just buried and so then well
i think we'll have a couple of other
posts today that that may relate to that
but like
interest is something that is not like
gained or lost i think it tends to be
buried or not buried
so a case in point like i had kova the
last two weeks so like all of the things
that i was passionate about and
interested in i didn't care about
right like when you've got covid you
just don't care about anything you're
kind of an hedonic
even playing video games and stuff would
like not be fun so then there's like a
there's a process of sort of uncovering
what you enjoy what you love like where
did you lose sight of it what made you
lose sight of it there also all kinds of
like physical things that you can do
right you can take care of your body and
then your interest will naturally grow
so you can do stuff like yoga meditation
eating healthy food like all that kind
of stuff is going to be good for you you
know if you go see your doctor you know
get your vitamin d levels checked
get um you know there are all kinds of
biological things that can result in a
lack of motivation so you can kind of
work on some of those things
and remember that just because you've
lost your interest doesn't mean that you
can't find it again you have to really
figure out how it got buried